Samuel Strong
005831181
https://github.com/ViolinVirtuoso/Project-3

Collaboration & Sources:
I got help from the labs we did covering material that was included or was related to the subject material here.
I also got a LOT of help from a group chat that I'm in with my classmates.
I did use Claude to help me understand some of what I was writing, and what approaches to use for specific functions.
I think my main help this time, though, was actually the project description.
With all the algorithms written out in it, and the header file sketches, I felt very secure.


Implementation Details:
I have 12 files. main.cpp, Scanner.hpp, Scanner.cpp, utils.hpp, utils.cpp, TreeNode.hpp, BinSearchTree.hpp, BinSearchTree.cpp, PriorityQueue.hpp, and PriorityQueue.cpp.
main.cpp is the tester.
Scanner.hpp and Scanner.cpp define a class that can scan an input txt file and "tokenize" it into a .tokens file.
utils.hpp and utils.cpp define a class that is used in main and in Scanner to throw various errors if things go wrong.
TreeNode.hpp defines a class that is used by BinSearchTree and minorly by PriorityQueue for nodes.
BinSearchTree.hpp and BinSearchTree.cpp define a class that makes a binary search tree (with frequency values) out of the data generated by Scanner.
PriorityQueue.hpp and PriorityQueue.cpp define a class that makes a priority queue out of the data generated by BinSearchTree.
HuffmanTree.hpp and HuffmanTree.cpp define a class that uses the output from the BST and the ordering from the PriorityQueue to create a full Huffman tree.
You can find comments to help you along in your reading of my code within my code.

Testing & Status:
Everything works on my computer... here is the output for my computer.

"C:\Users\samue\CLionProjects\Project 3\cmake-build-debug\Project_3.exe" input_output/TheBells.txt
Total tokens: 82
Distinct words: 48
BST height: 11
Min frequency: 1
Max frequency: 11
Total letters in input words: 382
Total bits in encoded words: 417

Process finished with exit code 0


However, on Blue? It gives me a weird error.

Compiling: g++ -std=c++20 -Wall BinSearchTree.cpp HuffmanTree.cpp main.cpp PriorityQueue.cpp Scanner.cpp utils.cpp -o p3_complete.x
PriorityQueue.cpp: In member function ‘void PriorityQueue::print(std::ostream&) const’:
PriorityQueue.cpp:62:23: warning: comparison of integer expressions of different signedness: ‘int’ and ‘std::vector<TreeNode*>::size_type’ {aka ‘long unsigned int’} [-Wsign-compare]
62 |     for (int i = 0; i < items_.size(); ++i) {
|                     ~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PriorityQueue.cpp: In member function ‘bool PriorityQueue::isSorted() const’:
PriorityQueue.cpp:89:23: warning: comparison of integer expressions of different signedness: ‘int’ and ‘std::vector<TreeNode*>::size_type’ {aka ‘long unsigned int’} [-Wsign-compare]
89 |     for (int i = 1; i < items_.size(); ++i) {
|                     ~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Scanning for inputs in: input_output

==> Running: p3_complete.x on the_toil_of_trace_and_trail.txt
Error: File the_toil_of_trace_and_trail.txt doesn't exist. Terminating...

I'm not entirely sure why or how, as it does in fact exist in the local input_output directory. Sorry, professor...